WikiTeXer is created to allow writing Mediawiki input and
generate HTML or LaTeX. The reasoning is that TeX is great for output, but
not so friendly for users. Also, I needed a tool that would:

1. Allow a mixture of Wiki language and LaTeX input
2. Generate HTML to Word/OpenOffice document formats
3. Generate LaTeX -> PS -> PDF

There is a plethora of tools that comes some way towards achieving this goal.
However, there are downsides for each. I did not want a Wiki based HTML server
- just the command line. The 'deplate' program does a lot of things right,
unfortunately the architecture was too complex to start hacking it.

Ultimately the architecture should be simple and allow contained HTML for HTML
output and contained LaTeX for LaTeX output. Much of the complexity of existing
systems is that they need to cater to either pure LaTeX (like latex2html), or
HTML (many wysiwyg examples), or XML (docbook, XML/FO). Where the latter is
about rendering, and less about usage

LaTeX itself is a great system for publishing (less so for interactive
systems). My main criticism is that LaTeX (or TeX) is showing its age
in terms of syntax - wiki style syntax just gets less in the way. For
typing I want something even less in the way, but I still want to
generate powerful output, the way LaTeX does.

What would be nice is to have a LaTeX environment where one could replace some
of the common markup with Wiki-style markup. Also macro's would be nice in a
modern language, say Ruby.  Finally we need great output. Converting figures
between LaTeX and HTML can be done transparently.  However, tables are a
difficult problem. My choice is to support native LaTeX tables and native HTML
tables - as I tend to generate them anyway. Maybe later a external converter
can be used to handle translation automatically as a plugin.

Darn, I found I have another project on my hands. And it shows how powerful a
force TeX still is.

The latest is that WikiTeXer works, is fast, and delivers the goods.
It even supports bibtex parsing, and generating HTML bibliographies.
These last years I have use WikiTeXer for paper writing - and now I am
writing my thesis with it.

WikiTeXer has some shortcomings. The parser is regex based - it should
really be a proper token parser. Also, I should refactor some of the
modules and method namings. Still, the code is easy to adapt - feel
free to do so.

In the process of writing this software, I started to appreciate the
work of Donald Knuth even more!

Pjotr Prins.

